docs: Document the new LoadBalancer deployment option (#1350)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/manage/kubernetes/networking/custom-services.mdx

---
title: Use a Custom Service for External Access
tags:
  - Kubernetes

> description: Stop the Helm chart from deploying default Services that provide external access. Then, either create your own Services to provide external access or leave the deployment without external access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to configure the Helm chart to enable creating your own custom Services to provide external access to a Redpanda cluster.
```

<Tabs groupId="helm-config">
<TabItem value="values" label="--values">

```yaml title="disable-external-service.yaml"
external:
  enabled: true
  type: null
  addresses:
  - <subdomain-or-ip-address-for-replica-0>
  - <subdomain-or-ip-address-for-replica-1>
  - <subdomain-or-ip-address-for-replica-2>
```

```bash
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda -n redpanda --create-namespace \
  --values disable-external-service.yaml --reuse-values
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="flags" label="--set">

```bash
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda -n redpanda --create-namespace \
  --set external.enabled=true
  --set external.type=null
  --set "external.addresses={<subdomain-or-ip-address-for-replica-0>,<subdomain-or-ip-address-for-replica-1>,<subdomain-or-ip-address-for-replica-2>}"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Make sure to configure `external.addresses` with addresses that point to the worker node on which each Redpanda broker is running. The addresses must be listed in order of the StatefulSet replicas. For example, the first address in the list is assigned to the first replica (`redpanda-0` by default).

> If you use a custom domain (`external.domain`), provide subdomains for each replica in `external.addresses`. This domain is appended to each subdomain (`<subdomain-for-replica-0>.<custom-domain>`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a custom domain (`external.domain`), provide subdomains for each replica in `external.addresses`. This custom domain is appended to each subdomain (`<subdomain-for-replica-0>.<custom-domain>`).
```
